p8105_hw1_kw2873.md, before:

p8105\_hw1\_kw2873
================
Keyi Wang
9/13/2019

I’m an R Markdown document\!

# problem 1: datafram

``` r
  set.seed(12)
  s = rnorm(8)
  v_logi = s > 0
  v_ch = c("A", "B", "C", "D","E", "F", "G", "H")
  v_fac = factor(c("AB", "B", "O", "B","B", "O", "AB", "B"),
                 levels = c('AB','B','O'))
  
library(tidyverse)
```

    ## ── Attaching packages ───────────────────────── tidyverse 1.2.1 ──

    ## ✔ ggplot2 3.2.1     ✔ purrr   0.3.2
    ## ✔ tibble  2.1.3     ✔ dplyr   0.8.3
    ## ✔ tidyr   0.8.3     ✔ stringr 1.4.0
    ## ✔ readr   1.3.1     ✔ forcats 0.4.0

    ## ── Conflicts ──────────────────────────── tidyverse_conflicts() ──
    ## ✖ dplyr::filter() masks stats::filter()
    ## ✖ dplyr::lag()    masks stats::lag()

``` r
example_df = tibble(
  samp = s,
  vec_logical = v_logi,
  vec_char = v_ch,
  vec_factor = v_fac
  )
### out put of the example_data fram
example_df
```

    ## # A tibble: 8 x 4
    ##     samp vec_logical vec_char vec_factor
    ##    <dbl> <lgl>       <chr>    <fct>     
    ## 1 -1.48  FALSE       A        AB        
    ## 2  1.58  TRUE        B        B         
    ## 3 -0.957 FALSE       C        O         
    ## 4 -0.920 FALSE       D        B         
    ## 5 -2.00  FALSE       E        B         
    ## 6 -0.272 FALSE       F        O         
    ## 7 -0.315 FALSE       G        AB        
    ## 8 -0.628 FALSE       H        B

``` r
### take the mean of each variables
mean(s)
```

    ## [1] -0.6242112

``` r
mean(v_logi)
```

    ## [1] 0.125

``` r
mean(v_ch)
```

    ## Warning in mean.default(v_ch): argument is not numeric or logical:
    ## returning NA

    ## [1] NA

``` r
mean(v_fac)
```

    ## Warning in mean.default(v_fac): argument is not numeric or logical:
    ## returning NA

    ## [1] NA

``` r
### using the as.numeric function

as.numeric(v_logi)
```

    ## [1] 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0

``` r
as.numeric(v_ch)
```

    ## Warning: NAs introduced by coercion

    ## [1] NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA

``` r
as.numeric(v_fac)
```

    ## [1] 1 2 3 2 2 3 1 2

the mean of my sample is -0.6242112

the mean of my logical vector is 0.125

the mean of my character vector is NA

the mean of my factor vector is NA

**we noticed that the mean of both character and factor vector doesn’t
exist. However, when I used the as.numeric function to convert the
non-numeric ve **

# problem 1 continued

``` r
new_logi1 = as.numeric(v_logi)
new_logi2 = as.factor(v_logi)
result1 = new_logi1*s
result2 = new_logi2*s
```

    ## Warning in Ops.factor(new_logi2, s): '*' not meaningful for factors

``` r
new_logi3 = as.numeric(new_logi2)
result3 = new_logi3*s
```

# problem 2

``` r
set.seed(1)
x = rnorm(500)
library(tidyverse)
plot_df = tibble(
  x = rnorm(500),
  y = rnorm(500),
  v_logi = x + y > 1,
  v_num = as.numeric(v_logi),
  v_fac = as.factor(v_num),
)
summary(plot_df)
```

    ##        x                  y               v_logi            v_num      
    ##  Min.   :-2.99695   Min.   :-3.253220   Mode :logical   Min.   :0.000  
    ##  1st Qu.:-0.79008   1st Qu.:-0.706557   FALSE:383       1st Qu.:0.000  
    ##  Median :-0.02126   Median :-0.053591   TRUE :117       Median :0.000  
    ##  Mean   :-0.04594   Mean   :-0.002988                   Mean   :0.234  
    ##  3rd Qu.: 0.68933   3rd Qu.: 0.738174                   3rd Qu.:0.000  
    ##  Max.   : 3.05574   Max.   : 3.639574                   Max.   :1.000  
    ##  v_fac  
    ##  0:383  
    ##  1:117  
    ##         
    ##         
    ##         
    ## 

In this dataplot, the number of rows is 500 the number of colon is 5 the
mean, meadian, and standard deviation of x are 0.0226441, -0.0367783,
1.0239989 respectively. And the proportion for cases for which x+y\>1 is
25.2%

# problem 2 continued with making plots

``` r
plot_1 = ggplot(plot_df, aes(x = x, y = y, color = v_logi)) + geom_point()
plot_2 = ggplot(plot_df, aes(x = x, y = y, color = v_num)) + geom_point()
plot_3 = ggplot(plot_df, aes(x = x, y = y, color = v_fac)) + geom_point()
ggsave("scatterplot1.png", plot=plot_1)
```

    ## Saving 7 x 5 in image

Commit message:

update a little bit for the question about explaining the factor-character-logi

p8105_hw1_kw2873.md, after:

p8105\_hw1\_kw2873
================
Keyi Wang
9/13/2019

I’m an R Markdown document\!

# problem 1: datafram

``` r
  set.seed(12)
  s = rnorm(8)
  v_logi = s > 0
  v_ch = c("A", "B", "C", "D","E", "F", "G", "H")
  v_fac = factor(c("AB", "B", "O", "B","B", "O", "AB", "B"),
                 levels = c('AB','B','O'))
  
library(tidyverse)
```

    ## ── Attaching packages ───────────────────────── tidyverse 1.2.1 ──

    ## ✔ ggplot2 3.2.1     ✔ purrr   0.3.2
    ## ✔ tibble  2.1.3     ✔ dplyr   0.8.3
    ## ✔ tidyr   0.8.3     ✔ stringr 1.4.0
    ## ✔ readr   1.3.1     ✔ forcats 0.4.0

    ## ── Conflicts ──────────────────────────── tidyverse_conflicts() ──
    ## ✖ dplyr::filter() masks stats::filter()
    ## ✖ dplyr::lag()    masks stats::lag()

``` r
example_df = tibble(
  samp = s,
  vec_logical = v_logi,
  vec_char = v_ch,
  vec_factor = v_fac
  )
### out put of the example_data fram
example_df
```

    ## # A tibble: 8 x 4
    ##     samp vec_logical vec_char vec_factor
    ##    <dbl> <lgl>       <chr>    <fct>     
    ## 1 -1.48  FALSE       A        AB        
    ## 2  1.58  TRUE        B        B         
    ## 3 -0.957 FALSE       C        O         
    ## 4 -0.920 FALSE       D        B         
    ## 5 -2.00  FALSE       E        B         
    ## 6 -0.272 FALSE       F        O         
    ## 7 -0.315 FALSE       G        AB        
    ## 8 -0.628 FALSE       H        B

``` r
### take the mean of each variables
mean(s)
```

    ## [1] -0.6242112

``` r
mean(v_logi)
```

    ## [1] 0.125

``` r
mean(v_ch)
```

    ## Warning in mean.default(v_ch): argument is not numeric or logical:
    ## returning NA

    ## [1] NA

``` r
mean(v_fac)
```

    ## Warning in mean.default(v_fac): argument is not numeric or logical:
    ## returning NA

    ## [1] NA

``` r
### using the as.numeric function

as.numeric(v_logi)
```

    ## [1] 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0

``` r
as.numeric(v_ch)
```

    ## Warning: NAs introduced by coercion

    ## [1] NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA

``` r
as.numeric(v_fac)
```

    ## [1] 1 2 3 2 2 3 1 2

the mean of my sample is -0.6242112

the mean of my logical vector is 0.125

the mean of my character vector is NA

the mean of my factor vector is NA

**we noticed that the mean of both character and factor vector doesn’t
exist. Both logical and factor vector can be converted into numeric
vector using as.numeric function, yet, character vector failed to do so.
**

# problem 1 continued

``` r
new_logi1 = as.numeric(v_logi)
new_logi2 = as.factor(v_logi)
result1 = new_logi1*s
result2 = new_logi2*s
```

    ## Warning in Ops.factor(new_logi2, s): '*' not meaningful for factors

``` r
new_logi3 = as.numeric(new_logi2)
result3 = new_logi3*s
```

# problem 2

``` r
set.seed(1)
x = rnorm(500)
library(tidyverse)
plot_df = tibble(
  x = rnorm(500),
  y = rnorm(500),
  v_logi = x + y > 1,
  v_num = as.numeric(v_logi),
  v_fac = as.factor(v_num),
)
summary(plot_df)
```

    ##        x                  y               v_logi            v_num      
    ##  Min.   :-2.99695   Min.   :-3.253220   Mode :logical   Min.   :0.000  
    ##  1st Qu.:-0.79008   1st Qu.:-0.706557   FALSE:383       1st Qu.:0.000  
    ##  Median :-0.02126   Median :-0.053591   TRUE :117       Median :0.000  
    ##  Mean   :-0.04594   Mean   :-0.002988                   Mean   :0.234  
    ##  3rd Qu.: 0.68933   3rd Qu.: 0.738174                   3rd Qu.:0.000  
    ##  Max.   : 3.05574   Max.   : 3.639574                   Max.   :1.000  
    ##  v_fac  
    ##  0:383  
    ##  1:117  
    ##         
    ##         
    ##         
    ## 

In this dataplot, the number of rows is 500 the number of colon is 5 the
mean, meadian, and standard deviation of x are 0.0226441, -0.0367783,
1.0239989 respectively. And the proportion for cases for which x+y\>1 is
25.2%

# problem 2 continued with making plots

``` r
plot_1 = ggplot(plot_df, aes(x = x, y = y, color = v_logi)) + geom_point()
plot_2 = ggplot(plot_df, aes(x = x, y = y, color = v_num)) + geom_point()
plot_3 = ggplot(plot_df, aes(x = x, y = y, color = v_fac)) + geom_point()
ggsave("scatterplot1.png", plot=plot_1)
```

    ## Saving 7 x 5 in image
